# HW1 - Hello World

---

## Guidelines

- Please follow the assignment grading criteria so that you will not lose points.
- All homework should be sent through Blackboard.
- Add a comment as a first line to your source file that should be: **YourLastName_YourFirstName_CSCI271_HW#**
- The `cpp` source file name of homework should be - **HW#Q#.cpp** or **HW#.cpp** - depending on number of assigned questions, e.g. HW1Q1.cpp, HW2.cpp
- All homework should be submitted in text file format in an organized and well-formatted fashion. **!!!No other formats are accepted!!!**.

---

## Purpose:
The purpose of this homework assignment is to familiarize yourself using the Vi text editor, compiling C++ source code with g++, and to run the executable within the Unix environment.

In this homework, you will be writing your first C++ program. You will copy the provided code, compile the code, and run your first C++ program.

```c++
// Homework 1 - Hello World
// First Name Last Name Date
// Class Section

#include<iostream>
using namespace std;

int main() {

  cout << "Hello World";
  cout << endl;

  return(0);
}
```

During lecture, we will discuss what each line statement is used for in the provided code. You may not know much about what is going on yet, but by next week you will. This assignment is more so a 'copy/paste' and follow the instructions kind of deal, but again, the purpose is to familiarize yourself with standard compilation. We will learn the details very soon.

## Instructions

- Open in text editor (**DO NOT USE Word**) file `HW1.cpp` and manually copy the code above, do not paste the code
- Save the file and compile (run) your program -
- To run your executable, and take notice of what output we see.                 
    - Only the quoted text was printed and no other keywords or lines within our source code.
- Add another line of output to your program that will include your full name after the line with the 'endl'
```c++
    cout << "First Last";
    cout << endl;
```
- Save the source code, exit, and recompile the source code. If there were no errors, run the executable and take notice of the changes.
- Once completed, you will submit through the Blackboard your source code (only `HW1.cpp` file).
